First batch for the new components doc (#24571)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/public/components/overview.md

# Overview of components

The Agent is structured as a collection of components working together. Depending on how the binary is built, and how it

> is invoked, different components may be instantiated.

Reviewer: > Depending on how the binary is built, and how it
is invoked, different components may be instantiated.

I think this sentence is quite misleading. The components created don't depend on the build tags neither on the command line arguments

<!-- TODO: What are the goals of using the components?  -->

## What is a component?

The goal of a component is to encapsulate a particular piece of logic/feature and provide a clear and documented interface. 

A component must:

  + Hide the complexity of the implementation from its users.

>   + Be reusable no matter the context or the binary in which they're included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  + Be reusable no matter the context or the binary in which it is included.
```

  + Be tested.

>   + Expose a mock implementation to help testing.

Reviewer: I think mock should be created only if it makes sense.

  + Be owned by a single team which supports and maintains it.
  
Any change within a component that don't change its interface should not require QA of another component using it.

> Since each component is an interface to the outside we can have several implementations for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since each component is an interface to the outside, it can have several implementations.
```

> ## FX vs Go module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Fx vs Go module
```

> Components are designed to be used with a dependency injection framework. In the Agent, we use [Fx](fx.md) for this. All Agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Components are designed to be used with a dependency injection framework. In the Agent, we use [Fx](fx.md), a dependency injection framework, for this. All Agent
```

> binaries use `FX` to load, coordinate and start the required components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
binaries use Fx to load, coordinate, and start the required components.
```

Some components are used outside the `datadog-agent` repository where `FX` is not available. To support this, the components implementation must not require `FX`. 
Component implementations can be exported as Go modules. The next section explains in more detail how to create components.

> The important information here is that it's possible to use components without FX **outside** the agent repository. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The important information here is that it's possible to use components without Fx **outside** the Agent repository. This
```

> comes at the cost of manually doing the work of Fx.

Reviewer: which may be error prone and hard to maintain in the long run.

## Important note on Fx

> The component framework project core goal is to improve the Agent codebase by decoupling parts of the code, removing global state and init

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The component framework project's core goal is to improve the Agent codebase by decoupling parts of the code, removing global state and init
```

> methods, and increased reusability by separating logical units into components. **`Fx` itself is not intrinsic to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
methods, and increasing reusability by separating logical units into components. **Fx itself is not intrinsic to the
```

# Overview of Components

The Agent is structured as a collection of components working together. Depending on how the binary is built, and how it
is invoked, different components may be instantiated.

## What is a Component?

Any well-defined portion of the codebase, with a clearly documented API, _should_ be a component. The ultimate goal of

> component is to clearly encapsulate the logic/feature block that composed the Datadog Agent. Components can be small or very

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
any component is to clearly encapsulate the logic/feature block that composes part of the Datadog Agent. Components can be small or very
```

large but all share the same goals.

A component must:

* **Limit blast radius**:
    + Have a single interface clearly highlighting how the component must be used and what features it offers.
    + Encapsulate and abstract all the complexity of its subject. As much as possible a user of a component should not

>       have to know all the internals of this one. As well, any change to the internals of a component should have no

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      have to know all the internals of it. As well, any change to the internals of a component should have no
```
